# An Interview with Universal Audio Software Engineer Chris Howe
### By Mir Jeffres
 
On November 11, 2021, I sat down with Chris Howe on Zoom to discuss his journey in the music technology field. Chris is a graduate of Georgia Tech’s Masters in Music Technology program, and has worked at Moog and now Universal Audio as a software engineer. At Moog, he worked extensively on the Moog One synthesizer, and now at Universal Audio, he works on the guitar pedals team. He started the annual Moog Hackathon at Georgia Tech, a program in which students create an interactive instrument with a Moog Werkstatt in 48 hours. This love for interactive music can be seen even in his undergrad, in which he created interactive installation art pieces. When he went to Georgia Tech for grad school, the undergrad program in Music Technology did not exist, and it just so happens that he was the TA for a class I am taking now, 8 years later. I chose to interview Chris because his career path seemed like one I wanted to follow, and throughout talking I realized we had even more in common through music technology. This interview was a useful glimpse into what life can be like after a music technology degree, and how to network and find jobs in a field you are passionate about. 
 
 
### So I know you're a software engineer at Universal Audio, what would you say that that your roles and responsibilities at the job are, and your role at the company?
UA is still a fairly small company, so there's a lot of you know there's a wide variety of responsibilities that you can find a place for yourself in software, so I've worked on things as low-level as the bootloader and operating systems work. I'm on the guitar pedals team, so all of our products that are that guitar related or guitar pedal related. I've done work on the bootloader and like really low level sort of stuff all the way up to JavaScript and Python build systems. I think one nice thing about smaller companies is that you have a larger diversity of learning opportunities to get your feet wet in a bunch of different areas and learn a lot about a lot of different things.

### So, what would a typical work day look like for you?
I'm kind of in it. (laughs). So I took the job mid-pandemic and the whole company is still pretty much 100% remote. I'm on the full remote employee, so I wake up, go for a run if the weather's nice, and then I can start working. We use project management tools like Atlassian and Jira to organize any kind of bugs or tickets that have been filed a night by QA engineers, and I use that to organize my day; looking at different tickets or tasks that are managed by all the infrastructure.
 
### So you said you started this job during the pandemic, how did you get there, what was your career journey?
So I went to Georgia Tech for graduate school and then, I'm sure you're familiar with the Guthman at this point? So one of the judges at the Guthman was Cyril Lance, who is the CTO at Moog Music which is a synthesizer manufacturer in Asheville North Carolina, and that's where I still am, I'm in Asheville since there's no point in moving anywhere right now. So I was at Moog for six years, I met Cyril through that connection, and I was mostly doing audio DSPs and effects work and GUI. Primarily just worked on this instrument you see behind me, the Moog One. I worked there for 6 years and it's a lot of fun but it's a really small company, so it's kind of run like a startup which is pretty intense. I was looking for somewhere in between [a really small and a large company] to slow down a little bit, and get out of synths. I'm originally a guitar player, so I like working on guitar products if I can. And this opportunity presented itself at Universal Audio. There was already a connection because UA has worked with Moog in the past, so I reached out to someone on LinkedIn, filled out some paperwork, and started the interview process.

### Did you not hear about an open job, you just wanted to work there?
There wasn't really a job open, there were a few jobs with open recommendations that were kind of open, but again when you're working in a smaller company you can apply for several things because you're like this thing one month and then no one else is working on this part of systems you got to work on the next month. So yeah I just ended up reaching out and said hey if there's ever anything that looks good let me know. It took seven to eight months of persistent checking in. Same can kind of be said for Moog, honestly there was not a job that was presented at Moog, it was more just I'm going to be really annoying for 6-8 months and showing that I was working independently and really wanted to work there and then it ended up working out. And that worked for another person back at Moog, another Georgia Tech alum, I think it took him a whole year of being persistent.
 
### Did you go to grad school?
I went to grad school, when I was at Georgia Tech there was no undergrad music technology program. so it's exciting to see the program grow. Had it existed, I would have gone to the undergrad program as well.

### What did you do your undergrad in?
My undergrad is in contemporary installation art, it's a studio art degree, but I was I was a touring musician for 7 years before I went back to undergrad so I started everything kind of late. I had always known I wanted to do something in music, all of my artwork had a musical audio installation component or was heavily reliant on programming and engineering in that respect. So I got a little bit of an education in the STEM domain in undergrad, but really Georgia Tech was where I honed more of my technical skills. 

**Wow, I'm actually taking a class right now, interactive music, that's basically talking about designing such things.**

Yeah, it's really fun work to do, and there are industries for for it, anywhere from like working in a museum or doing installation work.

**Do you think you want to start doing that again one day?**

I don't know, I like being in my house (laughs). Especially in the last two years it's been nice to [work remotely]. Nothing really changed, I was remote at Moog for a while just because I preferred working in my home office, and so it's been nice to not have to adjust to that aspect of the last two years. But who knows, life is crazy.
 
### How would you say that your college experience prepared you for the jobs you had? What skills did you have from college or what skills did you have to learn on the job?
So I think the biggest skill was being thrown basically into a fire, of all these things you don't know and just having to grind to catch up. [A professor's] coursework on some of his earlier courses that I took were very intense for me, coming from a not-DSP-heavy background. The grit that is necessary at Georgia Tech in general totally overprepared me for most of the workplace. For example this year, I had never programmed in JavaScript in my life, I am much more comfortable coding lower level in C/C++, but we needed someone to get on this project [that I'm now working on] immediately on JavaScript, so some of the Georgia Tech grit helped me pick it up myself and now I'm doing a lot more JavaScript than I've ever done. So [my takeaways from college were] not only the content, like the DSP content that was applicable to Moog too, but the need to learn quickly.
 
### What are you using JavaScript for?
We do a lot of GUI development in JavaScript. UA is interesting because there's a wide variety of programming languages and infrastructure that's able to work in. so you know, algo team and low-level stuff in C or C++, up to Python for infrastructure management, building deployment, QA automated testing, and it's near all that stuff and then JavaScript for GUIs.
 
## What skills do you think are most critical to your job position?
I think just a general understanding of programming languages and how they all kind of work because things change so much and there's always new frameworks, you know. If you can learn a programming language quick, that's a good skill. Being a software engineer, a fundamental understanding of C is a really good skill that you need. And then you can extrapolate that to other places. And, something that I didn't get a whole lot in grad school that is a big part of my job is deployment of software. So, doing automated testing and deploying to test flight for mobile apps, or deploying to different places to push that firmware or software out to the public. That's not the most fun work, but it's going to have to be smooth, seamless, and frictionless and you need it to work well for everyone to be happy in the organization.

*Published with permission from Christopher Howe on November 10, 2021*
